docs: document application command-chain (#5599)
snapcore/snapcraft: docs/explanation/command-chain.rst

.. _explanation-command-chain:

Command Chain
=============

Command chain is a mechanism for running small pieces of code before the main
application executable. The chain uses ``exec`` to transition the process from
the current element of the chain to the next. The last element of the chain is
always the application executable.

Uses
----

Command chain may be used to modify process environment, perform initialization
steps or anything else that makes sense in a given situation. Command chain

> elements are usually reusable across applications. Command chain elements are

Reviewer: > Command chain elements are usually reusable across applications.

As in different `app` entries in the same snap or different snaps?  The "usually" in this sentence and the next sentence are throwing me off.  Is this referring to scripts that get re-used like desktop-launch or alsa-launch?

also usually stackable, so an application can use several tailored command

> chain elements to perform unrelated functions.

Author: The are stackable in the sense that you can take a command chain that, say, handles fontconfig cache, then another one that prepares your XDG configuration, then another one to generate locale data based on what the user is doing and each of those programs is entirely unrelated to each other, and can be used across apps and snaps.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: snapcraft.yaml

   apps:
     hello:
       command: bin/hello
       command-chain:
       - bin/foo
       - bin/bar

Here, when the application ``hello`` is started, snapd performs a sequence of
initialization steps executed by distinct programs. Execution starts by running
``/bin/snap``. Execution then continues by ``exec`` to a specific copy of
``snap-confine``, followed by another ``exec`` to ``snap-exec``. In the absence
of command-chain elements, ``snap-exec`` executes the application binary. In
the presence of command chain, the first element of the chain, ``bin/foo``
executes instead.

Protocol
--------

Every element of the chain is responsible for executing the next chain by

> calling ``exec`` (without forking the process).  Here both ``bin/foo`` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calling ``exec`` (without forking the process).  Continuing with the previous example, both ``bin/foo`` and
```

``bin/bar`` would follow the same protocol, ultimately executing ``bin/hello``.
The next element of the chain is passed through the process argument vector.

In the example above, ``snap-exec`` would call ``exec bin/foo bin/bar
bin/hello`` with ``bin/foo`` as the program path and program name and ``bin/bar
bin/hello`` as arguments. This protocol continues until the application entry

> point is reached.

Reviewer 2: Food for thought: this could also be visualised as a series of nodes in ASCII. It would reinforce the meaning.
